README.md, before:

# JavaSpringTutorial

## [Class 4](https://github.com/fahimfarhan/JavaSpringTutorial/tree/class-4)
1. Go to start.spring.io, select language, version etc.
2. Add dependencies. The initial dependency is `Spring web`

The initial code is
```java
@SpringBootApplication
public class StartApplication {

  public static void main(String[] args) {
    SpringApplication.run(StartApplication.class, args);
  }
}
```

The `@SpringBootApplication` annotation is very powerful, and important. It 
has 3 components:
* `@SpringBootConfiguration`:  creates `bean` in some `container`. Bean is like lazy initialization
* `@EnableAutoConfiguration`: Auto-generates different objects. So we don't need to manually create certain objects.
* `@ComponentScan`: We're gonna use @Controller, @Service etc throughout the code. This annotation scans these all, and makes them available to the Spring framework 


## What is a `Bean`?
Suppose, 
```java
class Addition {
  int add(int i) { return 0; } // todo: logic
}
class Math {
  Addition addition = new Addition();  // <--- this object is created at the very beginning!
  
  void addNumber(int i) {
    addition.add(i); // todo: logic
  }
}
```

We don't want to create `addition` object at start time. So we use `bean`, which creates the `addition` object when we need it. 
How do we do that?

```java
@Component       // step 1: Add this line
class Addition {
  int add(int i) { return 0; } // todo: logic
}

```
This creates a bean, and stores it inside an IOC container.  Now in the class Math, you do this:

```java
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;

@Component  // <-- step 3
class Math {

  @Autowired  // <-- step 4. This connects the variable with the corresponding bean
  Addition addition;

  void addNumber(int i) {
    addition.add(i); // todo: logic
  }
}
```

3. We want to follow clean architecture. 
    user <---------> controller <-------> Services <-------> Repository <----------> DB
    Our controller class will look like this:

```java
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMethod;

@RestController   // <----------------- Annotates that this is a controller class. The user will first time reach here!
public class GreetController {

  @GetMapping("/greet")
    // <------------- connects an API endpoints to a method
  String greet() {
    return "Hello there!";
  }


  @RequestMapping(value = "/greet-v2", method = RequestMethod.GET)
    // <------------- connects an API endpoints to a method
  String greet() {
    return "Hello there!";
  }
}
```

4. Create a model class `Email.java`:

```java
import com.fasterxml.jackson.annotation.JsonIgnore;

class Email {
  private String title;
  private String description;
  private String someThingSecret;

  // constructor, getter, setter etc

  // if we want to ignore a field from returning to the client, use @JsonIgnore on the getter
  @JsonIgnore
  public String getSomeThingSecret() {
    return someThingSecret;
  }
}
```
5. Create an EmailService, and EmailController. Annotate them with `@Service`, and `@RestController` respectively.
6. Inside the EmailController, create an EmailService using `@AutoWired` annotation. The @Service creates an EmailService bean, that is 
   stored inside IOC (Inversion of Container). The `@AutoWired` annotation automatically links the variable with the reference of EmailService object stored in IOC.
```java
      class EmailController {
        //  @Autowired // warning dey ken? Vo.O
        //  private EmailService emailService;
      
        private EmailService emailService;
    
        @Autowired  // AutoWired using setter. Alternatively, use constructor as autocorrected by intellijIdea.
        public void setEmailService(EmailService emailService) {
          this.emailService = emailService;
        }
      }
```
7. `@PostMapping`
8. Custom exception handling: use `@ResponseStatus(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND)`

## [Class 5](https://github.com/fahimfarhan/JavaSpringTutorial/tree/class-5)
Previously in class 4, we saw RestController, Service, and Repository.
```mermaid
flowchart TD;
    A[user] --> B[emailController];
    B --> C[EmailService];
    C --> D[EmailService];
    D --> E[list of emails];
```

Today, we'll add a persistence layer (database).


```mermaid
flowchart TD;
    A[user] --> B[emailController];
    B --> C[EmailService];
    C --> D[EmailService];
    D -- email --> E[DataBase];
```
We'll use Spring JPA dependency. All we need to o is give JPA a model, in this case `Email`.
For simplicity, we'll use an inMemory database called `H2 database`. In the next class,
we'll see microservices, and there we'll use postgresql.

1. Add h2-db, jpa, and hibernate-core dependencies.
2. Create an interface called `EmailRepository`, and annotate with `@Repository`.
3. The emailRepo should extend `JpaRepository`.
4. ORM = Object relation mapping
5. Annotate the Email class with `@Entity`
6. Create a field `id` for primary key. The primary key must be annotated with `@Id`, and `@GeneratedValue`.
7. Update the emailService class by adding Autowired emailRepository object.
**Got an error. Tried to repair it, but failed! Log:**
```bash
 
  .   ____          _            __ _ _
 /\\ / ___'_ __ _ _(_)_ __  __ _ \ \ \ \
( ( )\___ | '_ | '_| | '_ \/ _` | \ \ \ \
 \\/  ___)| |_)| | | | | || (_| |  ) ) ) )
  '  |____| .__|_| |_|_| |_\__, | / / / /
 =========|_|==============|___/=/_/_/_/
 :: Spring Boot ::                (v2.7.1)

2022-07-22 12:53:57.320  INFO 27003 --- [           main] indiedev.soumic.start.StartApplication   : Starting StartApplication using Java 18.0.2 on Zephyrus-G14 with PID 27003 (/home/soumic/Codes/JavaSpringTutorial/start/build/classes/java/main started by soumic in /home/soumic/Codes/JavaSpringTutorial/start)
2022-07-22 12:53:57.322  INFO 27003 --- [           main] indiedev.soumic.start.StartApplication   : No active profile set, falling back to 1 default profile: "default"
2022-07-22 12:53:57.628  INFO 27003 --- [           main] .s.d.r.c.RepositoryConfigurationDelegate : Bootstrapping Spring Data JPA repositories in DEFAULT mode.
2022-07-22 12:53:57.653  INFO 27003 --- [           main] .s.d.r.c.RepositoryConfigurationDelegate : Finished Spring Data repository scanning in 21 ms. Found 1 JPA repository interfaces.
2022-07-22 12:53:57.926  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.s.b.w.embedded.tomcat.TomcatWebServer  : Tomcat initialized with port(s): 8080 (http)
2022-07-22 12:53:57.932  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.apache.catalina.core.StandardService   : Starting service [Tomcat]
2022-07-22 12:53:57.932  INFO 27003 --- [           main] org.apache.catalina.core.StandardEngine  : Starting Servlet engine: [Apache Tomcat/9.0.64]
2022-07-22 12:53:57.980  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.a.c.c.C.[Tomcat].[localhost].[/]       : Initializing Spring embedded WebApplicationContext
2022-07-22 12:53:57.980  INFO 27003 --- [           main] w.s.c.ServletWebServerApplicationContext : Root WebApplicationContext: initialization completed in 626 ms
2022-07-22 12:53:57.991  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.s.j.d.e.EmbeddedDatabaseFactory        : Starting embedded database: url='jdbc:h2:mem:f00b51fa-7fbf-41fa-828a-a55894cfbfd4;DB_CLOSE_DELAY=-1;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=false', username='sa'
2022-07-22 12:53:58.040  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.s.b.a.h2.H2ConsoleAutoConfiguration    : H2 console available at '/h2-console'. Database available at 'jdbc:h2:mem:f00b51fa-7fbf-41fa-828a-a55894cfbfd4'
2022-07-22 12:53:58.089  WARN 27003 --- [           main] ConfigServletWebServerApplicationContext : Exception encountered during context initialization - cancelling refresh attempt: org.springframework.beans.factory.UnsatisfiedDependencyException: Error creating bean with name 'emailController': Unsatisfied dependency expressed through method 'setEmailService' parameter 0; nested exception is org.springframework.beans.factory.UnsatisfiedDependencyException: Error creating bean with name 'emailService': Unsatisfied dependency expressed through field 'emailRepository'; nested exception is org.springframework.beans.factory.BeanCreationException: Error creating bean with name 'emailRepository' defined in indiedev.soumic.start.email.EmailRepository defined in @EnableJpaRepositories declared on JpaRepositoriesRegistrar.EnableJpaRepositoriesConfiguration: Cannot create inner bean '(inner bean)#427ae189' of type [org.springframework.orm.jpa.SharedEntityManagerCreator] while setting bean property 'entityManager'; nested exception is org.springframework.beans.factory.BeanCreationException: Error creating bean with name '(inner bean)#427ae189': Cannot resolve reference to bean 'entityManagerFactory' while setting constructor argument; nested exception is org.springframework.beans.factory.NoSuchBeanDefinitionException: No bean named 'entityManagerFactory' available
2022-07-22 12:53:58.090  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.s.j.d.e.EmbeddedDatabaseFactory        : Shutting down embedded database: url='jdbc:h2:mem:f00b51fa-7fbf-41fa-828a-a55894cfbfd4;DB_CLOSE_DELAY=-1;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=false'
2022-07-22 12:53:58.295  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.apache.catalina.core.StandardService   : Stopping service [Tomcat]
2022-07-22 12:53:58.306  INFO 27003 --- [           main] ConditionEvaluationReportLoggingListener : 

Error starting ApplicationContext. To display the conditions report re-run your application with 'debug' enabled.
2022-07-22 12:53:58.313 ERROR 27003 --- [           main] o.s.b.d.LoggingFailureAnalysisReporter   : 

***************************
APPLICATION FAILED TO START
***************************

Description:

Field emailRepository in indiedev.soumic.start.email.EmailService required a bean named 'entityManagerFactory' that could not be found.


Action:

Consider defining a bean named 'entityManagerFactory' in your configuration.


Process finished with exit code 1
```
Question: How do I define this bean entityManagerFactory? Help needed.

Commit message:

:hammer_and_pick: `Fix(correct-jpa):` Changes the JPA dependency version

README.md, after:

# JavaSpringTutorial

## [Class 4](https://github.com/fahimfarhan/JavaSpringTutorial/tree/class-4)
1. Go to start.spring.io, select language, version etc.
2. Add dependencies. The initial dependency is `Spring web`

The initial code is
```java
@SpringBootApplication
public class StartApplication {

  public static void main(String[] args) {
    SpringApplication.run(StartApplication.class, args);
  }
}
```

The `@SpringBootApplication` annotation is very powerful, and important. It 
has 3 components:
* `@SpringBootConfiguration`:  creates `bean` in some `container`. Bean is like lazy initialization
* `@EnableAutoConfiguration`: Auto-generates different objects. So we don't need to manually create certain objects.
* `@ComponentScan`: We're gonna use @Controller, @Service etc throughout the code. This annotation scans these all, and makes them available to the Spring framework 


## What is a `Bean`?
Suppose, 
```java
class Addition {
  int add(int i) { return 0; } // todo: logic
}
class Math {
  Addition addition = new Addition();  // <--- this object is created at the very beginning!
  
  void addNumber(int i) {
    addition.add(i); // todo: logic
  }
}
```

We don't want to create `addition` object at start time. So we use `bean`, which creates the `addition` object when we need it. 
How do we do that?

```java
@Component       // step 1: Add this line
class Addition {
  int add(int i) { return 0; } // todo: logic
}

```
This creates a bean, and stores it inside an IOC container.  Now in the class Math, you do this:

```java
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;

@Component  // <-- step 3
class Math {

  @Autowired  // <-- step 4. This connects the variable with the corresponding bean
  Addition addition;

  void addNumber(int i) {
    addition.add(i); // todo: logic
  }
}
```

3. We want to follow clean architecture. 
    user <---------> controller <-------> Services <-------> Repository <----------> DB
    Our controller class will look like this:

```java
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMethod;

@RestController   // <----------------- Annotates that this is a controller class. The user will first time reach here!
public class GreetController {

  @GetMapping("/greet")
    // <------------- connects an API endpoints to a method
  String greet() {
    return "Hello there!";
  }


  @RequestMapping(value = "/greet-v2", method = RequestMethod.GET)
    // <------------- connects an API endpoints to a method
  String greet() {
    return "Hello there!";
  }
}
```

4. Create a model class `Email.java`:

```java
import com.fasterxml.jackson.annotation.JsonIgnore;

class Email {
  private String title;
  private String description;
  private String someThingSecret;

  // constructor, getter, setter etc

  // if we want to ignore a field from returning to the client, use @JsonIgnore on the getter
  @JsonIgnore
  public String getSomeThingSecret() {
    return someThingSecret;
  }
}
```
5. Create an EmailService, and EmailController. Annotate them with `@Service`, and `@RestController` respectively.
6. Inside the EmailController, create an EmailService using `@AutoWired` annotation. The @Service creates an EmailService bean, that is 
   stored inside IOC (Inversion of Container). The `@AutoWired` annotation automatically links the variable with the reference of EmailService object stored in IOC.
```java
      class EmailController {
        //  @Autowired // warning dey ken? Vo.O
        //  private EmailService emailService;
      
        private EmailService emailService;
    
        @Autowired  // AutoWired using setter. Alternatively, use constructor as autocorrected by intellijIdea.
        public void setEmailService(EmailService emailService) {
          this.emailService = emailService;
        }
      }
```
7. `@PostMapping`
8. Custom exception handling: use `@ResponseStatus(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND)`

## [Class 5](https://github.com/fahimfarhan/JavaSpringTutorial/tree/class-5)
Previously in class 4, we saw RestController, Service, and Repository.
```mermaid
flowchart TD;
    A[user] --> B[emailController];
    B --> C[EmailService];
    C --> D[EmailService];
    D --> E[list of emails];
```

Today, we'll add a persistence layer (database).


```mermaid
flowchart TD;
    A[user] --> B[emailController];
    B --> C[EmailService];
    C --> D[EmailService];
    D -- email --> E[DataBase];
```
We'll use Spring JPA dependency. All we need to o is give JPA a model, in this case `Email`.
For simplicity, we'll use an inMemory database called `H2 database`. In the next class,
we'll see microservices, and there we'll use postgresql.

1. Add h2-db, jpa, and hibernate-core dependencies. Update: hibernamte-core is not needed. I had added a wrong JPA dependency, that's why I got error. Changing the JPA resolved the problem.
2. Create an interface called `EmailRepository`, and annotate with `@Repository`.
3. The emailRepo should extend `JpaRepository`.
4. ORM = Object relation mapping
5. Annotate the Email class with `@Entity`
6. Create a field `id` for primary key. The primary key must be annotated with `@Id`, and `@GeneratedValue`.
7. Update the emailService class by adding Autowired emailRepository object.
**Got an error. Tried to repair it, but failed! Log:**
```bash
 
  .   ____          _            __ _ _
 /\\ / ___'_ __ _ _(_)_ __  __ _ \ \ \ \
( ( )\___ | '_ | '_| | '_ \/ _` | \ \ \ \
 \\/  ___)| |_)| | | | | || (_| |  ) ) ) )
  '  |____| .__|_| |_|_| |_\__, | / / / /
 =========|_|==============|___/=/_/_/_/
 :: Spring Boot ::                (v2.7.1)

2022-07-22 12:53:57.320  INFO 27003 --- [           main] indiedev.soumic.start.StartApplication   : Starting StartApplication using Java 18.0.2 on Zephyrus-G14 with PID 27003 (/home/soumic/Codes/JavaSpringTutorial/start/build/classes/java/main started by soumic in /home/soumic/Codes/JavaSpringTutorial/start)
2022-07-22 12:53:57.322  INFO 27003 --- [           main] indiedev.soumic.start.StartApplication   : No active profile set, falling back to 1 default profile: "default"
2022-07-22 12:53:57.628  INFO 27003 --- [           main] .s.d.r.c.RepositoryConfigurationDelegate : Bootstrapping Spring Data JPA repositories in DEFAULT mode.
2022-07-22 12:53:57.653  INFO 27003 --- [           main] .s.d.r.c.RepositoryConfigurationDelegate : Finished Spring Data repository scanning in 21 ms. Found 1 JPA repository interfaces.
2022-07-22 12:53:57.926  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.s.b.w.embedded.tomcat.TomcatWebServer  : Tomcat initialized with port(s): 8080 (http)
2022-07-22 12:53:57.932  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.apache.catalina.core.StandardService   : Starting service [Tomcat]
2022-07-22 12:53:57.932  INFO 27003 --- [           main] org.apache.catalina.core.StandardEngine  : Starting Servlet engine: [Apache Tomcat/9.0.64]
2022-07-22 12:53:57.980  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.a.c.c.C.[Tomcat].[localhost].[/]       : Initializing Spring embedded WebApplicationContext
2022-07-22 12:53:57.980  INFO 27003 --- [           main] w.s.c.ServletWebServerApplicationContext : Root WebApplicationContext: initialization completed in 626 ms
2022-07-22 12:53:57.991  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.s.j.d.e.EmbeddedDatabaseFactory        : Starting embedded database: url='jdbc:h2:mem:f00b51fa-7fbf-41fa-828a-a55894cfbfd4;DB_CLOSE_DELAY=-1;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=false', username='sa'
2022-07-22 12:53:58.040  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.s.b.a.h2.H2ConsoleAutoConfiguration    : H2 console available at '/h2-console'. Database available at 'jdbc:h2:mem:f00b51fa-7fbf-41fa-828a-a55894cfbfd4'
2022-07-22 12:53:58.089  WARN 27003 --- [           main] ConfigServletWebServerApplicationContext : Exception encountered during context initialization - cancelling refresh attempt: org.springframework.beans.factory.UnsatisfiedDependencyException: Error creating bean with name 'emailController': Unsatisfied dependency expressed through method 'setEmailService' parameter 0; nested exception is org.springframework.beans.factory.UnsatisfiedDependencyException: Error creating bean with name 'emailService': Unsatisfied dependency expressed through field 'emailRepository'; nested exception is org.springframework.beans.factory.BeanCreationException: Error creating bean with name 'emailRepository' defined in indiedev.soumic.start.email.EmailRepository defined in @EnableJpaRepositories declared on JpaRepositoriesRegistrar.EnableJpaRepositoriesConfiguration: Cannot create inner bean '(inner bean)#427ae189' of type [org.springframework.orm.jpa.SharedEntityManagerCreator] while setting bean property 'entityManager'; nested exception is org.springframework.beans.factory.BeanCreationException: Error creating bean with name '(inner bean)#427ae189': Cannot resolve reference to bean 'entityManagerFactory' while setting constructor argument; nested exception is org.springframework.beans.factory.NoSuchBeanDefinitionException: No bean named 'entityManagerFactory' available
2022-07-22 12:53:58.090  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.s.j.d.e.EmbeddedDatabaseFactory        : Shutting down embedded database: url='jdbc:h2:mem:f00b51fa-7fbf-41fa-828a-a55894cfbfd4;DB_CLOSE_DELAY=-1;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=false'
2022-07-22 12:53:58.295  INFO 27003 --- [           main] o.apache.catalina.core.StandardService   : Stopping service [Tomcat]
2022-07-22 12:53:58.306  INFO 27003 --- [           main] ConditionEvaluationReportLoggingListener : 

Error starting ApplicationContext. To display the conditions report re-run your application with 'debug' enabled.
2022-07-22 12:53:58.313 ERROR 27003 --- [           main] o.s.b.d.LoggingFailureAnalysisReporter   : 

***************************
APPLICATION FAILED TO START
***************************

Description:

Field emailRepository in indiedev.soumic.start.email.EmailService required a bean named 'entityManagerFactory' that could not be found.


Action:

Consider defining a bean named 'entityManagerFactory' in your configuration.


Process finished with exit code 1
```
Question: How do I define this bean entityManagerFactory? Help needed.

8. Changing the JPA dependency repaired the error in step 7
